docs(snapshots): Add Android setup guide (EME-1031) (#17425)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/product/snapshots/android/index.mdx

---
title: Android
sidebar_order: 30
description: Set up snapshot testing for Android apps with the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin.
---

<Include name="feature-available-for-user-group-early-adopter" />

> Set up snapshot testing for your Android app with the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin. Run snapshot tests locally or in your own CI using your preferred snapshot library, then upload the generated images to Sentry for image diffing, visual review, and GitHub check status updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set up [Snapshots](/product/snapshots) for your Android app with the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin. Run snapshot tests locally or in your own CI using your preferred snapshot library, then upload the generated images to Sentry for image diffing, visual review, and GitHub status checks.
```

Reviewer: not sure if "check status updates" is on purpose, feel free to switch that one back

## Step 1: Enable Snapshots

Ensure the [Sentry Android Gradle Plugin](/platforms/android/configuration/gradle/) version 6.4.0 or higher is applied and configured.

Then enable snapshots in your `build.gradle`:

```kotlin
sentry {
  snapshots {
    enabled = true
  }
}
```

> ## Step 2: Connect Your Snapshot Tool

Reviewer: It's not very clear that there's an option to go from Preview -> Snapshots. 

In the intro, I think we should frame the two paths for generation (previews vs. writing tests w any library) and then have the headers reflect those two workflows. Since step 3. is abstracted from generation we could have
```
## step 1: enable snapshots

## Step 2: Generating Images

### Compose Preview to Images
...
### Using other tools
...
```

Author: good point, let me know if the updated structure makes sense

> ### Paparazzi (Recommended)

Reviewer: is paparazzi the recommended bc we go from previews -> images or just as a test framework. not clear atm

Author: yes exactly it is recommended because we make snapshots from all the existing compose previews. let me know if the updated wording makes this more clear

### Roborazzi

If you already have [Roborazzi](https://github.com/takahirom/roborazzi) configured, wire the Sentry upload task to the output of your Roborazzi record task:

```kotlin
afterEvaluate {
  tasks.named<SentryUploadSnapshotsTask>("sentryUploadSnapshotsDebug") {
    dependsOn(tasks.named("recordRoborazziDebug"))
    snapshotsPath.set(
      project.extensions.getByType<RoborazziExtension>().outputDir
    )
  }
}
```

Then continue to [Step 3](#step-3-test-locally).

### Other Tools

The same pattern works with any snapshot tool. Set `snapshotsPath` to the directory your tool writes images to, and add a `dependsOn` for the task that generates them:

```kotlin
afterEvaluate {
  tasks.named<SentryUploadSnapshotsTask>("sentryUploadSnapshotsDebug") {
    dependsOn(tasks.named("yourSnapshotTask"))
    snapshotsPath.set(layout.projectDirectory.dir("path/to/snapshots"))
  }
}
```

Alternatively, you can use `sentry-cli` directly to upload images. See [Uploading Snapshots](/product/snapshots/uploading-snapshots/) for the general upload structure.

## Step 3: Test Locally

Verify your setup by running:

```bash
./gradlew sentryUploadSnapshotsDebug
```

> If that succeeds, you can proceed with integrating into CI. See [Uploading Snapshots](/product/snapshots/uploading-snapshots/#upload-with-ci) for an example CI workflow.

Reviewer: maybe step 4 shold be "Integrate into CI", just so it's very clear and not lost to body text

Author: yes, added step 4
